docs/README.md, before:

# Documentation
This is the official documentation for `pypely`. This page will describe the core functions and how they can be applied. Please also see the documentation for other modules available in `pypely`:

* [helpers](helpers/README.md)
* [memory](memory/README.md)

## Core functions
This section will describe the core functions:

* [pipeline](#pipeline)
* [fork](#fork)
* [merge](#merge)
* [to](#to)
* [identity](#identity)

Additionally to this document you can take a look at the [tests](https://github.com/stoney95/pypely/tree/main/tests/test_functions.py)

### `pipeline`

> **Signature** `(*func: Callable) -> Callable` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import pipeline`

`pipeline` allows you to chain defined functions together. The output of a function will be passed as the input to the following function. `pipeline` can be used like the following:

```python
use_pypely = pipeline(
    open_favourite_ide,
    create_new_conda_environment,
    activate_environment,
    install_pypely,
    have_fun_building_pipelines 
)

use_pypely() # -> 🥳
```

#### Inputs
The number of inputs is not defined for `pipeline` as you can chain as many functions as you like. It has to be **at least one function**. But each input needs to be a `Callable`. This includes using a `lambda` expression directly inside `pipeline`. Using `lambda` can be useful but don't use it to often as this will decrease readability.

Demonstration:  
```python
def add(x, y):
    return x + y

def print_result(result):
    print(result)

# Valid usages
valid_1 = pipeline(add)
valid_2 = pipeline(add, print_result)
valid_3 = pipeline(add, lambda result: print(result))
valid_4 = pipeline(add, print)
valid_4 = pipeline(add, identity, identity, identity, identity, print)

# Invalid usages
x = 1
y = 2
invalid_1 = pipeline(4, 2, add)
invalid_2 = pipeline((4, 2), add)
invalid_3 = pipeline(x, y, add)
invalid_4 = pipeline(add, x, y)
invalid_5 = pipeline()
```

Using invalid arguments will currently not produce an error when creating the pipeline. The error will be thrown when executing the pipeline. This will be addressed in [this issue](https://github.com/stoney95/pypely/issues/4)

#### Outputs
`pipeline` will transform all the input `Callable`s into a single `Callable`. The returned `Callable` has the same signature as the first function for the input and as the last function for the output

Demonstration: 
```python
def add(x: int, y: int) -> int:
    return x + y

def add_to_3(x: int) -> int:
    return x + 3

def mul_with_5(x: int) -> int:
    return x * 5

def div_by_2(x: int) -> float:
    return x / 2

# pipe: Callable[[int, int], float]
pipe = pipeline(add, mul_with_5, add_to_3, div_by_2)
result = pipe(1,2) # result: float
```

### `fork`

> **Signature** `(*func: Callable[[T], Any]) -> Callable[[T], PypelyTuple]` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import fork`

Sometimes you want to do multiple things with one intermediate result. `fork` allows you to do this. You can specify multiple functions inside `fork`. Each will receive the output of the previous function as the input. `fork` outputs a `PypelyTuple` with the result of each specified function in the order of the functions. You can use fork like this.

```python
morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    )
)

morning_routine() # -> PypelyTuple(🍵, 🍳, 🍞, 🍽️)
```

#### Inputs
The number of inputs to `fork` is not limited as you can fork an intermediate result as often as required. But each `Callable` needs to have the same signature regarding the input, as each given `Callable` consumes the same intermediate result of type `T`.

#### Outputs
`fork` outputs a new `Callable` that consumes an intermediate result of type `T`. The output of this new `Callable` is a `PypelyTuple` with each output of the given `Callables` at the position they were given to `fork`. 

### Merge

> **Signature** `(func: [Callable[..., T]) -> Callable[[PypelyTuple], T]` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import merge`

After you split your process into multiple branches, it is time to `merge`. You only have to specify a function that takes as many arguments as there are branches. `merge` will flatten and unpack the `PypelyTuple` calculated by a previous `fork` and forward it to the specified function. `merge` returns the output of the specified function. Use `merge` to have a lovily breakfast:


```python
def set_table(tea: 🍵, eggs: 🍳, bread: 🍞, plate: 🍽️):
    ...

morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    ),
    merge(set_table)
)

morning_routine() # -> 😋
```

#### Inputs
`merge` accepts a `Callable` as input. The `Callable` needs to accept as many fields as there are in the given `PypelyTuple` as they will be unpacked and forwarded to the given `Callable`

#### Outputs
`merge` returns a `Callable` that consumes a `PypelyTuple`. The output is as the output of the given `Callable` of type `T`. 

### To

> **Signature** `(obj: T, *set_fields: str) -> Callable[[PypelyTuple], T]` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import to`

A second way of joining multiple branches is using `to`. This function will forward the output of each branch to a data container. This could e.g. be a `dataclass` or a `namedtuple`. Like `merge`, `to` will also flatten the output of a previous `fork`. You can also define to which field of the given data container an output should be assigned. To do so define the field names as `str`. If no field names are given, the outputs will be applied to the given the container in the order they are created by `fork`:

```python
@dataclass
class Table: 
    tea: Tea
    eggs: Eggs
    bread: Bread
    plate: Plate

morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    ),
    to(Table)
)
```

Imagine a different definition of the `Table` class:

```python
@dataclass
class Table: 
    tea: Tea
    plate: Plate
    bread: Bread
    eggs: Eggs
    size: Optional[int] = None
    color: Optional[str] = None
```

You could change the order of the functions in `fork` to match the order of the fields of `Table`. Another way is to use field names in `to`. Note that you do not need to specify the two `Optional` fields:

```python
morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    ),
    to(Table, "tea", "eggs", "bread", "plate")
)
```

#### Inputs
`to` takes an object of type `T` and an unlimited number of optional `str` as input. The given `str`s describe the name and order of the field names. 

#### Outputs
`to` outputs a `Callable` that consumes a `PypelyTuple` and returns an object of type `T`. The content of thy `PypelyTuple` is assigned to the field names in the order they are given to `to` if they are given or in default order if no field names are specified. 


### Identity

> **Signature** `(x: T) -> T`
> **Import** `from pypely import identity`

The only purpose of this function is to forward the input. This can be used for intermediate results to bypass other steps and make them available in later steps.

Commit message:

docs(errors): describe raised errors

docs/README.md, after:

# Documentation
This is the official documentation for `pypely`. This page will describe the core functions and how they can be applied. Please also see the documentation for other modules available in `pypely`:

* [helpers](helpers/README.md)
* [memory](memory/README.md)

The documentation will explain `pypely` in a formal way. If you want to have a hands-on introduction please checkout the [examples](https://github.com/stoney95/pypely/tree/main/examples)

## Core functions
This section will describe the core functions:

* [pipeline](#pipeline)
* [fork](#fork)
* [merge](#merge)
* [to](#to)
* [identity](#identity)

Additionally to this document you can take a look at the [tests](https://github.com/stoney95/pypely/tree/main/tests/test_functions.py)

### `pipeline`

> **Signature** `(*func: Callable) -> Callable` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import pipeline` <br>
> **[Raises](#pipeline-errors)** `PipelineCallError`, `PipelineForwardError`

`pipeline` allows you to chain defined functions together. The output of a function will be passed as the input to the following function. `pipeline` can be used like the following:

```python
use_pypely = pipeline(
    open_favourite_ide,
    create_new_conda_environment,
    activate_environment,
    install_pypely,
    have_fun_building_pipelines 
)

use_pypely() # -> 🥳
```

#### Inputs
The number of inputs is not defined for `pipeline` as you can chain as many functions as you like. It has to be **at least one function**. But each input needs to be a `Callable`. This includes using a `lambda` expression directly inside `pipeline`. Using `lambda` can be useful but don't use it to often as this will decrease readability.

Demonstration:  
```python
def add(x, y):
    return x + y

def print_result(result):
    print(result)

# Valid usages
valid_1 = pipeline(add)
valid_2 = pipeline(add, print_result)
valid_3 = pipeline(add, lambda result: print(result))
valid_4 = pipeline(add, print)
valid_4 = pipeline(add, identity, identity, identity, identity, print)

# Invalid usages
x = 1
y = 2
invalid_1 = pipeline(4, 2, add)
invalid_2 = pipeline((4, 2), add)
invalid_3 = pipeline(x, y, add)
invalid_4 = pipeline(add, x, y)
invalid_5 = pipeline()
```

Using invalid arguments will currently not produce an error when creating the pipeline. The error will be thrown when executing the pipeline. This will be addressed in [this issue](https://github.com/stoney95/pypely/issues/4)

#### Outputs
`pipeline` will transform all the input `Callable`s into a single `Callable`. The returned `Callable` has the same signature as the first function for the input and as the last function for the output

Demonstration: 
```python
def add(x: int, y: int) -> int:
    return x + y

def add_to_3(x: int) -> int:
    return x + 3

def mul_with_5(x: int) -> int:
    return x * 5

def div_by_2(x: int) -> float:
    return x / 2

# pipe: Callable[[int, int], float]
pipe = pipeline(add, mul_with_5, add_to_3, div_by_2)
result = pipe(1,2) # result: float
```

#### `pipeline` Errors
The execution of a `pipeline` can raise the two errors: `PipelineCallError` and `PipelineForwardError`. 

* `PipelineCallError`: is raised when the arguments given to a `pipeline` do not match the signature of the `pipeline`. This signature of the pipeline is the same as the signature of the first function in the `pipeline`.
* `PipelineForwardError`: is raised when an intermediate result does not match the signature of the following function.

### `fork`

> **Signature** `(*func: Callable[[T], Any]) -> Callable[[T], PypelyTuple]` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import fork`

Sometimes you want to do multiple things with one intermediate result. `fork` allows you to do this. You can specify multiple functions inside `fork`. Each will receive the output of the previous function as the input. `fork` outputs a `PypelyTuple` with the result of each specified function in the order of the functions. You can use fork like this.

```python
morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    )
)

morning_routine() # -> PypelyTuple(🍵, 🍳, 🍞, 🍽️)
```

#### Inputs
The number of inputs to `fork` is not limited as you can fork an intermediate result as often as required. But each `Callable` needs to have the same signature regarding the input, as each given `Callable` consumes the same intermediate result of type `T`.

#### Outputs
`fork` outputs a new `Callable` that consumes an intermediate result of type `T`. The output of this new `Callable` is a `PypelyTuple` with each output of the given `Callables` at the position they were given to `fork`. 

### Merge

> **Signature** `(func: [Callable[..., T]) -> Callable[[PypelyTuple], T]` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import merge` <br>
> **[Raises](#merge-errors)**: `MergeError`


After you split your process into multiple branches, it is time to `merge`. You only have to specify a function that takes as many arguments as there are branches. `merge` will flatten and unpack the `PypelyTuple` calculated by a previous `fork` and forward it to the specified function. `merge` returns the output of the specified function. Use `merge` to have a lovily breakfast:


```python
def set_table(tea: 🍵, eggs: 🍳, bread: 🍞, plate: 🍽️):
    ...

morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    ),
    merge(set_table)
)

morning_routine() # -> 😋
```

#### Inputs
`merge` accepts a `Callable` as input. The `Callable` needs to accept as many fields as there are in the given `PypelyTuple` as they will be unpacked and forwarded to the given `Callable`

#### Outputs
`merge` returns a `Callable` that consumes a `PypelyTuple`. The output is as the output of the given `Callable` of type `T`. 

#### `merge` Errors
The execution of `merge` can raise a `MergeError`. This error occurs when the arguments created by flattening the input `PypelyTuple` do not match the signature of the function used by `merge`.

### To

> **Signature** `(obj: T, *set_fields: str) -> Callable[[PypelyTuple], T]` <br>
> **Import** `from pypely import to`

A second way of joining multiple branches is using `to`. This function will forward the output of each branch to a data container. This could e.g. be a `dataclass` or a `namedtuple`. Like `merge`, `to` will also flatten the output of a previous `fork`. You can also define to which field of the given data container an output should be assigned. To do so define the field names as `str`. If no field names are given, the outputs will be applied to the given the container in the order they are created by `fork`:

```python
@dataclass
class Table: 
    tea: Tea
    eggs: Eggs
    bread: Bread
    plate: Plate

morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    ),
    to(Table)
)
```

Imagine a different definition of the `Table` class:

```python
@dataclass
class Table: 
    tea: Tea
    plate: Plate
    bread: Bread
    eggs: Eggs
    size: Optional[int] = None
    color: Optional[str] = None
```

You could change the order of the functions in `fork` to match the order of the fields of `Table`. Another way is to use field names in `to`. Note that you do not need to specify the two `Optional` fields:

```python
morning_routine = pipeline(
    wake_up,
    go_to_kitchen,
    fork(
        make_tea,
        fry_eggs,
        cut_bread,
        get_plate
    ),
    to(Table, "tea", "eggs", "bread", "plate")
)
```

#### Inputs
`to` takes an object of type `T` and an unlimited number of optional `str` as input. The given `str`s describe the name and order of the field names. 

#### Outputs
`to` outputs a `Callable` that consumes a `PypelyTuple` and returns an object of type `T`. The content of thy `PypelyTuple` is assigned to the field names in the order they are given to `to` if they are given or in default order if no field names are specified. 


### Identity

> **Signature** `(x: T) -> T`
> **Import** `from pypely import identity`

The only purpose of this function is to forward the input. This can be used for intermediate results to bypass other steps and make them available in later steps.
